# In This Chapter
- Clarifying what "managing diversity" means
- Avoiding the assumptions that lead to problems
- Focusing on the issues of performance to manage - and behaviours not to tolerate
- Managing people as individuals

# Summary
Managing diversity is about recognising that everyone, even those who all conform to one or other idea of "diversity" (for example, white cis-het males) are individuals and all require you to approach managing them differently. A one-size-fits-all approach might help some of your employees, but will likely let down others who require something more that what you're offering.

Ways in which people are different include: **style** - the personal touch they bring to the job, which might include the layout of their desk; **personal background** - age, past job experience, ethnicity, religion, etc; and **attitude**, which can include negative opinions of people with, for example, two heads.

While avoiding managing everyone the exact same, a manager must also avoid managing people based on assumptions, such as **stereotyping**, **setting low expectations**, **believing that differences are negative**, and **equating sameness with equality**.

Since everyone is different, the way to effectively manage people is to focus on what affects peoples performance: **attendance**, where they show up and do so on time; the output, quality, completeness and timeliness of the **work and tasks**; and **job-related behaviours**, which is the employees conduction and relation to others.

While coaching the behaviours that positively impact performance, a manager must also eliminate the behaviours that negatively impact it, including but not limited to, **ridicule or insult**, **vulgarity or profanity**, **exclusion**, **threats** and **slurs**.

# Finding Out What Diversity Is All About
Diversity, in this context, extends far beyond the signals that we typically use to identify diversity in the workforce: race, gender, age and ethnicity being the main ones. Instead, diversity is about going beyond these signals and recognising that _everyone_ is different in some way. As managers, we need to manage people as individual by seeing past whatever superficial attributes define them from the outside and getting to know them on the inside. Everyone wants to come to work and be treated with respect and to feel they belong.

# Assumptions: The Ingredient To Leave Out
Four common assumptions that will hinder your productivity if you act upon them as you manage your staff are:
- **stereotyping**, prescribing a set of behaviours to someone based on a signal such as their occupation or background.
- **setting low expectations**, stereotyping people with reduced expectation of their performance.
- **believing that differences are negative**, building on stereotyping again, you believe individual from a group are too different to get on with.
- **equating sameness with equality**, this comes from misunderstanding what it means to treat your employees equally. You want to treat everyone equally in your management _efforts_ by treating them with respect, hold everyone to the same standard of performance and give everyone the guidance and support they need to do their job. What needs to differ is how you apply those efforts to your different employees. Trying to manage all employees with a one-size-fit-all management style is more likely to lead to employee failure than success.

# Focusing on Performance and Behaviours - Not on Assumptions
The only two safe assumptions in coaching employees are:
- everyone means well
- they want to do the best job they can

> To coach and manage diversity effectively, you need to concentrate on two areas: First, focus on performance; second, don't tolerate behaviours that hinder performance.

## Emphasising performance
Focusing management efforts on an employees performance focuses such efforts on the thing they are getting paid to do. The only way an employee can really fail is from their lack of skill and competence. Job performance can be broken into three main areas:
- **attendance**. This comes in two parts: **attendance**, where the employee needs to show up to work at all, though illness and disabling situations do not count towards this; and **punctuality**, where the employee needs to be at work on time. In salaried jobs, this isn't a big problem provided the employee is getting all their work done, but in time sensitive roles, such as customer service, being a minute late can be too late. As a manager you should apply common sense to this situation, rather than rules for rules sake, otherwise you risk ending up with compliance rather than commitment.
- **the work and tasks people do**. This comes in four parts: **output** is the volume of work needed to be done; **quality** is how well the job is done; **completeness** is how thoroughly the work is done; and **timeliness** is whether the work gets done when it needs to.
- **job related behaviours**. This is about the employees conduct and relation to others, and is critical for success in their job.

With regard to behaviours, focus should be placed on issues of performance that build positive work environments and yield productive outcomes. There are three issues that managers often try to manage but shouldn't:
1. **attitude** is something that can't be objectively seen, so is a minefield to try to manage, but doesn't need to matter. If an employee has a bad attitude towards people with two heads, but acts courteous and polite when working with people with two heads, then their attitude is irrelevant.
2. **personal background** covers things like age, past work experience, ethnicity, religion, etc, none of which determine a persons ability to do the job.
3. **style** is the personal touch someone puts on their job. Things like their desk layout are part of that. Unless style is harming others ability to do their jobs, it's not a performance issue.

## Stamping out insensitive behaviour
The second factor in managing diversity is to not tolerate behaviours that are disruptive or insensitive since these hinder quality performance and damage morale. Examples include, but are not limited to, off-colour humour, ridicule or insult, profanity and vulgarity, stereotypical remarks, subtle-to-overt sabotage, threats, slurs, mimicking and exclusion.

