# In This Chapter
- Contrasting how coaches and doers view and use their time.
- Identifying strategies for staying connected with your staff.
- Preparing and organising your coaching meetings.
- Facilitating effective two-way coaching meetings.

# Summary
The doer and the coach differ greatly in how they manage their time. The doer doesn't have a lot of time to spend with their employees. One type of doer is the interruption-driven manager, who is always in crisis mode and will only spend time with their employees when the employee interrupts them. Another common type of doer is the isolated manager, who is rarely seen by their employees as they consumed by meetings and other management activities.

The employees of both of these types of manager do not get quality time with their manager. This is in contract to the coach, who is in control of their time due to actively planning how they will spend it.

The coach sees quality time spent with their employees as an investment that will generate returns in the future. They plan to spend time with their employees in one or more of the following ways:
- **Management By Walking Around (MBWA):** walking around the office among the employees striking up casual conversations about non-work topics in order to build rapport and trust.
- **Management By Phoning Around (MBPA):** Same as MBWA, but doing so over the phone (or Zoom). Usually needs to be more planned than the impromptu nature of MBWA since the manager and employee need to both be available at the same time.
- **Lunch:** An opportunity to have a casual conversation with an employee in an environment outside of the office.
- **One-On-One Meetings:** The most effective way to spend time with your employees. Can be used to casually talk or as a coaching session. Not all one-on-one meetings need be coaching sessions, but all coaching sessions will be one-on-one meetings.

# Coaches vs doers: Views on Using Time
Coaches and doers both have very different views on how to spend their time.

## Time and the doer
A doer is often in crisis mode because they often fail to delegate tasks or decisions. Rather than develop others to deal with fire fighting or solving day-to-day problems, the doer will get stuck into doing that themselves. Employees will bring them problems, and the doer manager will relieve them of that problem and look to solve it for them.

The doers can be found somewhere between two extremes, if not right at one of them. One end of the spectrum is the **interruption-driven manager**, someone who always looks and sounds rushed, whose time is seldom structured or organised. If they spend 60 minutes with an employee during a week, it will likely be 60 one-minute chunks.

On the other end is the **isolated manager**. These managers are rarely seen by their employees, their time being consumed by meetings and other management activities. If they are ever seen, it is usually in a hit-and-run incident when they swoop in to tell everyone what to do during a serious problem. This style creates havoc in their employees lives. They don't have the time to pay attention to their employees.

## Time and the coach
The coach sees time spent with their employees as an investment that will yield a return later. Instead of giving the employee answers to their questions, they instead spend time helping the employee to learn how to find answers themselves. A coach spend their time making their employees more self-sufficient, allowing the manager to spend their time working on the critical issues they're paid to deal with.

## Coach vs Doer

| Coach | Doer |
| --- | --- |
| Spends an hour with the employee to prepare them for the challenges of the job | Gets interrupted 60 times by one employee in the course of a week |
| Spends time with employees to help them map out a plan to solve problems | Watches employees get frustrated by a problem before telling them the answer |
| Spends a half hour each week with an employee to review the status of a project | Checks in with the employee three times a day (micromanaging them) to learn about the project |

> Make my time count
> 
> -- Coach manager

A coaching manager organises their time by asking themselves three questions as part of their planning process (daily or weekly, say):
- What activities will you be involved with and when?
- How will you organise the time you spend in those activities?
- What will you gain from giving them time?

Use these questions to plan to spend time with employees who need your attention so it doesn't get monopolised by your other priorities.

# Two Techniques - MBWA and MBPA - for Building Connections
**Management by Walking Around (MBWA)** is a technique for building connections with your employees by walking around the office and striking up casual conversations with them. This helps you build rapport with them by being visible being able to talk to them about non-work topics.

To do MBWA effectively, there are a few tips:
- be frequent
- evenly distribute your time among employees
- strike a good balance between long and short contacts
- stay flexible in length of speaking and silence

The two primary benefits of MBWA are:
- your employees perceive you as being approachable
- you gain more of an understanding of what's going on in your department

**Management by phoning around (MBPA)** is the same as MBWA except you do it over the phone (or Zoom these days) instead of face to face. This one requires a bit more planning since you need to ensure the person you are speaking to is going to be available.

## Being friendly vs being a friend
Using the MBWA and MBPA techniques doesn't have to make you overly familiar with your employees. These are communication strategies that help you build the rapport and trust to be able to develop effective working relationships.

# Let's Do Lunch
Having lunch with your employees is another informal way to stay connected (perhaps Management by Eating Around, MBEA). It allows you to get to know them in an informal setting outside of work.

# One-on-One Meetings
A one-on-one meeting is the best way to organise your time for coaching your employees. While not every one-on-one meeting will be a **coaching session**, all coaching sessions will be on-one-one meetings, where you work with the employee to prepare them to perform. You'll do things like give feedback, set goals, develop plans, mentor to solve problems, etc.

As an organiser of one-on-one meetings, you should use these questions to plan them:
- **What is the objective for this meeting?** Both you and the employee need to know this goal going in so you can both focus on it.
- **What positive outcome are you seeking?** If you're dealing with a problem, the outcome you're seeking is a solution. If you're dealing with confusion, the outcome is a plan that provides clear direction.
- **What do you need to be prepared to do at the meeting?** You might need to provide feedback or information, ask stimulating questions, give direction or spell out expectations.
- **What do you want the employee to come prepared to do?** Avoid frustrating the employee or wasting their time by asking them to make necessary preparations ahead of time.
- **What particular plan or agenda for this session will encourage employee participation?** You want to have a conversation in these sessions, not talk at the employee while they nod and smile.
- **How can this meeting help the employee perform better or more self-sufficiently for the future?** Each coaching session should help the employee perform more self-sufficiently.
- **What follow-up should be set?** If any actions come from the session, you should arrange a follow-up session to review them. 

> These meetings should be driven by the employee. The manager's role is to provide support and add value that helps the employee perform well.

## Looking at some examples
### Sample 1
- **Objective:** Have the employee correct some mistakes in performance that you noticed occurring yesterday.
- **Positive outcome:** Focus on solutions. The point of the meeting is not to swell on mistakes, but to fix them.
- **Plan or flow of the meeting:**
	- Provide feedback of your observations of the mistakes made.
	- Encourage twi-way discussion, letting the employee comment on your feedback that solicit the person's ideas for correction and contribute ideas as needed.
	- Close by recapping the solution worked out during the session (have the employee recap as well) and set a follow-up meeting to review progress.
- **Come prepared:** Be ready to give the feedback and ask the questions so that the employee develops ideas for correction.

### Sample 2
- **Objective:** To review progress on hitting a project milestone and set next steps for keeping the projects on track.
- **Positive outcome:** A chance to recognise accomplishments, set future direction and maintain accountability.
- **Plan or flow of the meeting:**
	- Employee reports on deliverables produces to meet the project milestone. Your feedback is added as needed, especially to recognise good work.
	- If problems are identified, engage in joint problem-solving to address them.
	- With the employee, set the deliverables for the next milestone to be hit in the project.
	- Close by setting another status-review meeting around the next milestone.
- **Come prepared:** Both parties should have a list of the deliverables for which the employee is to report progress. If the employee has any issues or problems, they are to come prepared to explain them and recommend ideas for solution.

### Sample 3
- **Objective:** To evaluate how a customer meeting (a call and presentation) was handled by the employee. To be done as a debriefing after the customer meeting.
- **Positive outcome:** A chance to recognise what was done well and to determine what can be improved upon for future efforts.
- **Plan or flow of the meeting:**
	- Employee evaluates their own efforts on what was done well in the presentation and customer meeting - and on what didn't go well.
	- You provide your specific feedback on these two points.
	- On the areas for which improvement is needed, ask for the employee's ideas of what can be done for the next time and provide suggestions as needed.
	- Close the meeting be reinforcing the efforts that were done well and by setting action items for improvements with the employee.
- **Come prepared:** Let the employee know that you want to conduct a debriefing after the customer meeting and that you want them to be ready to self-evaluate how the call went. Then let them handle the call while you stay in a support role.