# Components
| Component           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Static IP Addresses | A pair of `anycast` IP addresses to associate with your accelerator                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Accelerator         | A router to direct traffic to endpoints over the AWS global network. Can be either standard or custom.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| DNS Name            | DNS name assigned to the static IP addresses associated with the accelerator                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Network Zone        | Similar to Availability Zones, physically isolated network infrastructure that services the static IP addresses associated with your accelerator. Each IP is associated with a different network zone for high availability.                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Listener            | Processes inbound connections from clients to your accelerator. Listens on combinations of IP and Port ranges. Has one or more endpoint groups associated with it, and traffic is routed to an endpoint in one of the groups.                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Endpoint Group      | A group of one or more Endpoints in a specific AWS Region. Percentage of traffic routed to an andpoint group can be adjusted using a *traffic dial*.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Endpoint            | A resource to which an accelerator routes traffic. Endpoints for standard accelerators can be Network Load Balancers, Application Load Balancers, EC2 instances, or Elastic IP addresses. An Application Load Balancer endpoint can be an internet-facing or internal. Endpoints for custom routing accelerators are virtual private cloud (VPC) subnets with one or many Amazon EC2 instances that are the destinations for traffic. |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

# How It Works
- **Health checking** - in standard accelerators, traffic is automatically routed away from unhealthy endpoints if Global Accelerator detects an endpoint has become unhealthy. This is not available with custom endpoints. This is because AWS determines the optimal endpoint to route traffic to when you use a standard accelerator, and is including health checks in the determination, whereas you are the one who determines where traffic in a custom accelerator goes, so there is no failover opportunity.
- **anycast** - anycast is one of four addressing methods in the Internet Protocol, alongside unicast, broadcast and multicast. With anycast, an IP address is shared among multiple geographically distributed nodes in the network and traffic is routed to the nearest node to the client. The nearest node is usually determined by the number of BGP hops between the client and the node.
- **vpc peering** - Global Accelerator establishes a peering connection with the VPC containing your endpoint, routing traffic from the edge location to your VPC via the AWS global network
- **address preservation** - the two anycast IP addresses remain associated with the accelerator even when it is disabled, and are only disassociated once the accelerator is deleted.
- **traffic dials** - allows you to configure how many requests an endpoint group will accept before the accelerator will route the remainder to other regions. Only available in standard accelerators.
- **traffic weights** - allows you to configure what proportion of traffic an accelerator routes to each endpoint. Only available on standard accelerators
- **dials vs weights** - you configure dials on endpoint groups and weights on endpoints within the group.

# Types of accelerators
- **standard** - allows more automated routing of traffic based on "standard" signals such as proximity, endpoint health, etc, as well as allowing fine grained control of traffic balancing using traffic dials on endpoint groups and weights on endpoints.
- **custom** - best suited for scenarios where you want to use custom application logic to route connections to a specific endpoint, rather than the general purpose conditions of the standard accelerator. One example is a VoIP application that needs to route multiple connections to the same server to initiate a video, call or messaging session. Real-time gaming is another example, where you would want to assign multiple players to a server based on factors like player skill, geographic location and game mode.

# Use Cases
- For **single-region applications**, Global Accelerator lets you reduce the time your traffic spends on the public internet, reducing the effects of congestion on the performance of your application.
- For **multi-region applications**, Global Accelerator allows you to simplify your routing infrastructure by using the two anycast IP addresses as the single point of entry to your service. It also allowed you change your origins, such as by adding or removing regions or replacing endpoints with different ones, without the clients having to know.
- For **multi-region storage**, S3 Multi-Region Access Points is based on Global Accelerator so can improve performance when access data sets replicated across multiple regions by up to 60%.

# Benefits
- **Accelerate latency-sensitive applications** - by reducing the number of network hops and utilising the redundant bandwidth of the AWS global network, Global Accelerator is able to improve the performance of your applications by taking their traffic off the public internet earlier than if you weren't using it, reducing the change of your application suffering performance degredation due to data being lost in congested public networks.
- **TCP connect at the edge** - typically a TCP connection is established via a two-way handshake using three messages. Typically this connection would be established between your application and the client accessing it, and the further away those two are from each other, the longer it will take to establish a connection. Global Accelerator terminates the TCP connection at the edge location while nearly simultaneously establishing a connection with your endpoint. As a result, the client sees a faster response time while the endpoint uses a TCP connection that is optimised for the AWS network.
- **Simplified global traffic management** - typically as an application grows to a global audience, the routing infrastructure must grow with it. Global Accelerator allows you to keep your global routing infrastructure simple as your application grows by using the pair of anycast IP addresses as the single point of entry to your application all over the world. Traffic dials also allow you to manage the distribution of traffic between different endpoints, allowing different endpoints to be used for A/B testing or blue-green deployments.
- **Protect your applications** - Global Accelerator masks your applicaiton behind the pair of anycast IPs and routes traffic to your endpoint by establishing a peering connection to your VPC, allowing put your application on the internet without exposing the EC2 instances to attackers, as well as being protected from DDoS by default by AWS Shield.
- **Disaster recovery and multi-Region resiliency** - when using a standard accelerator, traffic can be automatically rerouted to a healthy endpoint when an active endpoint is detected to be unhealthy.

# Drawbacks and limitations
- Global Accelerator does not support routing traffic to an endpoint owned by another AWS account. If you want to achieve this, you will need to first route the traffic to some sort of transit VPC in your account which can then route it to a VPC in another account
- Performance gains decrease with increasing data transfer size. For example, in Ireland, a 50KB file transfer was 25% faster with Global Accelerator, but a 5MB file transfer was only 6% faster. Testing using the [speed comparison tool][3] provided by AWS.
- A lot of information lost because of the use of TCP connections. HTTP would be able to preserve things like client IP addresses, but that can't be known using TCP connections.
- Relies on ISPs behaving.

# Further Reading
- [Accessing an AWS API Gateway via static IP addresses provided by AWS Global Accelerator][1]
- [Using AWS Global Accelerator to achieve blue/green deployments][2]



[1]: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/networking-and-content-delivery/accessing-an-aws-api-gateway-via-static-ip-addresses-provided-by-aws-global-accelerator/

[2]: https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/networking-and-content-delivery/using-aws-global-accelerator-to-achieve-blue-green-deployments/

[3]: https://speedtest.globalaccelerator.aws/