If you've ever decided to tackle a problem by sitting down and writing a list of things, then you're probably familiar with the feeling of control over the situation that comes from doing so. Getting things done is about applying this practice to all aspects of your life. professional or personal, urgent or non-urgent, in order to exert control over our commitments so they don't control us.

The goal is to reach a productivity state of mind similar to a concept in martial arts called "mind like water", where the reaction of water to a stone being dropped into it is directly proportional to the force of the impact. The water neither over nor under reacts, it reacts exactly as much as it needs to. A martial artist can learn to break a brick with their hands by utilising the speed of their punch, rather than the force behind it. This agility requires complete relaxation of the muscles, since tension will only slow the muscle. We want to achieve a state of relaxed control over the commitments in our lives.

Until we write them down, they remain in our brains as what the author refers to as **open loops**, that is commitments that are pulling our attention away from the present because they are not where they are supposed to be, how they are supposed to be. In order to get them to where and how they are supposed to be, we must define:
- what "done" looks like - our desired **outcome**
- what "doing" looks like - the next, smallest **action** we can take to move towards the outcome

Once we have these written down, we must enter them into a system that we will review on a regular basis, and will remind us of the outcome and action.

This system must be designed in such a way as to give us both **horizontal control** and **vertical control** over our commitments. Horizontal control allows us to stay in control of all the projects and activities in which we are engaged as we move between them, and vertical control allows us to stay in control of the individual project and topic needs.

Using your brain to store your commitments is problematic because there's a part of your psyche that habitually tracks all of these commitments, not as a way to be helpful but to constantly remind you it's there and you must do something about it. This causes us to constantly be in a reactive state, living only day to day and not thinking longer term. By offloading our day to day commitments to such a system, our minds are freed up to think about the larger, long term, concerns of our lives. 