Culture is structure and process, and there are those who view those as "the beginning of the end" for their little startup. In fact, structure and culture are how the company grows in a stable way, which you can understand if you instead talk about learning and transparency. We want to share our success and learn from our mistakes, and to encode them into the company in a transparent way, making sure they remain in place long after we are gone.

Think about refactoring spaghetti code, a task we normally do when we are trying to make the code scale. We are identifying and extracting a structure to make the code stand up to the stresses of handling more load then it was originally designed for. If you have ever had to make a mess of spaghetti code scale up without refactoring, then you uderstand the challenges faced when trying to scale up a company without intriducing culture.

## **Assessing Your Role**

> A complex system that works is invariably found to have evolved from a simple system that worked. A complex system designed from scratch never works and cannot be patched up to make it work. You have to start over with a working simple system.

-   Systemantics, by John Gall

Failure is a better teacher than success, since humans tend to disregard failures as simply bad luck, until so many of them occur that it's impossible to ignore their contribution to them. In this case, a company waits until the last possible moment to introduce structure, preventing the company being burdened by more than it needs.

Success, on the other hand, is often jumed on as a silver bullet, with insufficient attention being paid to the role of luck in success. Success can be applied to the company structure only if you fully understand the context required to repeat it.

Because of the role played by luck in success and failure, we can't assume that a complex system that works in one context will automatically work in any other. To build a complex system that works you must always start from a simple system.

Similarly, because of the role of luck, we can't take just a single failure as a signal to introduce new structure. We need a large sample size in order to be sure of the need to act.

## **Creating Your Culture**

To have a culture is to have a set of unspoken rules that unconsiously direct our interactions with each other, rules built upon a set of core values. Not everyone in the culture needs to share all of the same values, rather culture defines the area of overlap.

Not everyone will fit into every culture, and that's OK. To try and accomodate everyone is to have no values at all. People who fit into a culture will naturally succeed. They may have periods of difficulty, but they will be happy. On the other hand, someone who doesn't embrace the culture will be unhappy, finding it harder to exist within the organisation.

The founding members of a culture are the ones who define it, for better or worse.

## **Applying Core Values**

Leaders of any level have an responsibility to cultivate culture within the organisation. Here's three steps to create and cultivate it:

1.  **Define your teams core values**. Map your company's core values onto them and make sure you layer them, so different subteams can form different subcultures.
2.  **Reinforce culture by sharing stories of people exhibiting the core values**. Sharing stories of our success is what binds us together as a community. As well as spotting people who are strongly aligned with the values, learn to spot the friction caused by people who aren't. Use performance reviews to evaluate peoples alignment with the values.
3.  **Work cultural fit into the interview process**. Don't use friendship markers for this, since good friends don't necessarily make good colleagues. These markers are also discriminatory, since friendships are often formed between people with shared experiences that often correlate to education, class, race and gender.

## **Creating Cultural Policy**

## **Writing a Career Ladder**

## **Cross-Functional Teams**

## **Developing Engineering Processes**

## **Practical Advice: Depersonalize Decision Making**

## **Assessing Your own Experience**