-   An org chart does not represent the lines of communication that are present in an organization. People will reach out in all directions to others they depend on to get their work done, and bend the rules a it to achieve their goal.
-   The hierarchy defined in a org chart doesn't lend itself to agility. Innovations like Infrastructure as Code tools can reduce the deployment time of new systems from months to minutes, but a weekly release committee meeting will prevent that improvement being effective.
-   There are actually three structures within an organisation
    -   **Formal structure (the org chart)** - facilitates compliance
    -   **Informal structure** - the "realm of influence" between individuals
    -   **Value creation structure** - how work actually gets done based on inter-personal and inter-team reputation
-   Conway's Law defines the relationship between the organisation structure and system architecture. Either a software system will mirror the communication structure of the organisation, or the organisation can structure itself to achieve the desired architecture, know as a **reverse conway manoeuvre**.
-   Cognitive load on a team spreads them across too many domains, preventing them doing any one well. Can Pink's three elements of intrinsic motivation (Autonomy, Mastery and Purpose) are lost in such situations.
-   Org-chart thinking leads to software development being treated as a manufacturing process carried out by different functional silos. This rigid approach does not lend itself well to responding to feedback from the system, such as with Agile, Lean and DevOps do.