# In The Chapter
- Debunking myths surrounding coaching
- Getting a fresh perspective on the realities of coaching

# You Can't Afford The Time To Coach
Being a manager/leader means spending your time helping others be more effective, rather than working on your own tasks. Your time is a valuable resource and needs to be managed effectively. If you don't have the time to coach, you need to make it. ^b5ecc5

# Coaching Is Only About Being Nice To Employees
Being too nice to your employees makes it hard for you to give them constructive feedback, which can impair their performance and their growth. You need to be direct and firm with them when the situation calls for it.

# Without Any Good Role Models, Coaching Won't Work
Be the change you want to see. If you don't have any effective role models, make sure your employees don't also feel the same way. Take responsibility for your own situation, and coach your employees to do likewise.

# Coaching Means Seeking Consensus On Every Decision You Make
Don't fall into the trap of thinking that collaborative working means getting input from employees on every decision. Employees want you to make a lot of the decisions so they don't have to. If you get them involved in every decision you're trying to make, you'll stop them getting on with the work they're trying to do.

Instead, figure out what outcome they would like to see, or at least what outcome would be best for them and sell it to them, then make a decision that achieves that outcome.

# If You Hire Good People, Coaching Isn't Really Necessary
Hiring people and leaving them be doesn't maximize the employees potential. Even good people need guidance, feedback, goals and challenging work in order to grow, and for that you need to be involved with their growth.

# Employees Have To Ask For Coaching In Order To Be Receptive To It
Coaching isn't something your employees should be opting in or out of, rather it should be an unquestioned part of your relationship with them. Coaching is simply what you do as a manager. ^426eeb

# Coaching Collaboratively Doesn't Work When You Have A Disagreement
Coaching is actually the best way to work through a disagreement, provided both parties go into it with their minds open to new ideas.

# You Can Be An Effective Coach Even If You Lack Technical Competence In The Area You Manage
If you are managing and coaching people in a function with which you are unfamiliar, your credibility will be called into question as you lack the understanding of what the people do, making it harder to coach them.

This changes, however, when you manage managers, and the job you are coaching them to be better at is to manage and coach.

# Coaching Involves Being Direct - People Don't Like That
This comes from mistaking being direct with being blunt. Being blunt is where you slam the point home so the person takes it personally. Being direct, on the other hand, is about getting to the point and being sincere and honest with your feelings, both the positive and negative, and most, if not all people, want you to be honest with them.

# You Have To Be A Psychologist To Coach Employees
The only background you need to coach and manage employees is in the work you are coaching them to do. If your employees work in a technical field, then expertise in that field is all you need. If your employees are other managers, then a background in management is your qualification. Apart from that, the desire to work with your employees, to understand them as people and to help them grow is all that is needed.