# In This Chapter
- Recognising ways to stimulate employee commitment
- Setting a leadership tone for effective coaching
- Managing assertively and collaboratively
- Introducing a model for guiding efforts that build employee commitment

# Summary
Being an effective manager of others starts with being an effective manager of yourself. Your behaviour will set the tone for that of your employees, so you must conduct yourself in a way you would want them to emulate. Don't be the manager who responds to problems by blaming someone or something, instead be the manager who responds to problems with solutions.

You want to behave in a way that seeks commitment from your employees, not demand compliance. You want to be assertive and collaborative, not aggressive. You want to follow through on your commitments and tackle problems with a solution-oriented mindset. You want to communicate directly while respecting the feelings of others.

To build commitment in your employees, you must first build the five pillar upon which it sits:
- **focus**, where everyone knows what they need to do and why
- **involvement**, where everyone works in a context they helped shape
- **development**, where everyone has the opportunity to grow their skills
- **gratitude**, where good work is noticed and acknowledged
- **accountability**, where everyone has responsibility and the authority to act on it

# Tuning Into Personal Vs Positional Influence
| Management by Positional Influence    | Management by Personal Influence        |
| ------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| Exercise Authority                    | Exercise Personal Qualities             |
| Look To Maintain The Chain Of Command | Look To Build Working Relationships     |
| Seek Control                          | Seek Employee Ownership And Involvement |
| Likely result: compliance             | Likely result: commitment               |

# Seeking Commitment vs Compliance in Today's Workforce
Employees in today's workforce expect more autonomy and creative freedom than historically. People are more likely to stay at a job longer if they have a manager they respect and who respects them, rather than one attempts to control everything they do and enforce compliance.

```ad-note
Always choose personal influence over positional influence even when under pressure and stress. If you flip between the two, you erode your credibility with your employees.
```

# Managing as a Tone Setter
Your behavior as a manager is usually reflected in the employees you manage. If you routinely exhibit negative behaviors, you will either see those same behaviors in your employees, or they will exhibit other negative behaviors as a response to your own. For example, if you routinely blame employees for problems, your employees will be overly defensive and avoid taking responsibility for something in case they get blames for it going wrong. Similarly, if you routinely complain about things, including your manager, your employees will routinely complain, often about their manager.

The _Sweet 16_ behaviors for good managers:
- Listens to understand; isn't judgmental
- Follows through and meets commitments
- Takes an interest in employees as people
- Works productively and meets deadlines
- Is flexible and open-minded
- Treats others with respect
- Stays calm under pressure
- Addresses issues timely and stays in touch
- Collaborates with others
- Is solutions-oriented and doesn't blame
- Recognizes good performance of others
- Displays honesty and integrity
- Shows interest and enthusiasm for the work on individuals and the group
- Shows up on time for meetings and other important events
- Takes a positive focus in interactions

# The Collaborative and Assertive Nature of Coaching
Managing in a collaborative way means having a conversation with your employees about what needs to be done. You want to avoid doing things for them, as well as avoiding sitting with them and holding their hands. Being a good manager is about being decisive about getting things done while also being willing to listen and open to discussion.

**Engage in two-way conversations** - this involves having enough respect for one another to listen to and understand the others viewpoint. You don't necessarily have to agree with it, but you must hear and understand it

**Assert yourself** - asserting yourself doesn't mean dominating others, instead it refers to your ability to communicate and take action in a positive, sincere and confident manner that maintains respect for others. It takes the form, for example, of communicating directly, using language constructively, addressing problems with a focus on solutions, following through, taking initiative and leading the way to bring issues to closure.

```ad-note
title: Internalizing Collaboration

The shift to this style of management occurs in these situations:
- when a disagreement is recognised as an opportunity for listening and entering dialogue rather than as a time for arguing or just backing away.
- When a manager reacts to an employees resistance by seeking to find out why the resistance occurred in the first place and how the issue can be settled.
- When problems with an employees work are seen as an opportunity to ask questions and challenge employees to come up with solutions
```

**Hold the pickles, onions, and aggressiveness** - Assertive managers address problems in a solutions-oriented manner, aggressive ones address them through blame, whether its the employees or someone else. An assertive manager is direct, an aggressive one is blunt. Being assertive invites collaboration, being aggressive seeks compliance.

**Don't be passive** - coaching only works when you are actively involved with your employees and having dialogues with them. It don't work if you sit back and don't do anything.

# The Five Pillars for Building Commitment
1. **Focus**. Focus is about the employees knowing where the group is going, about having a plan. While the plan may change, the group will adapt, and not be plunged into Chaos.
2. **Involvement**. _People support most what they help to create_ illustrates that people are most invested in a situation that they've helped to shape.
3. **Development**. Employees have the opportunities to develop their skills. 
4. **Gratitude**. Good work done by employees is noticed and acknowledged. 
5. **Accountability**. Employees have responsibility along with the authority to carry it out. They perform good work because of the sense of achievement they get from doing so.