# Summary
The idea of the loner creative genius is a myth. Creativity isn't an antisocial activity, it's in fact a very social one. All creatives, even the ones who appear to be loners, exist within what Brian Eno calls a **scenius**, a scene populated by people creating within the same genre, each putting their ideas into the collective melting pot of the scene and building on the ideas contributed by others, which they then contribute back.

These scenes are the perfect way for **amateurs** to practice and develop their craft. They have access to the collective brain of the scene for ideas, while learning by doing as they contribute their own ideas to the collective. The gap between the mediocre work of the amateur and the good work of the professional may be expansive, but the amateur understand that contributing something is better than contributing nothing.

That expansive gap can be cross incrementally, while you can't build on nothing. To be an amateur in a scenius is to put yourself out there and learn in the open, both to refine their craft and develop their voice. Our **voice** is always inside us waiting to be heard, but it can only do so when we create. We can't find it first, then create.

If you find yourself lacking motivation to put yourself out there and contribute to your scenius, try contemplating death. Doing so is an effective way to appreciate the life you have, and to motivate you to live each day to its fullest. A near death experience is known to give the survivor this perspective, but for the rest of us reading obituaries is a suitable alternative.

# Find a Scenius
> Give what you have. To someone, it may be better than you dare to think.
> —Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

Creativity isn't the act of a lone genius, being struck by inspiration then labouring away in seclusion before revealing their masterwork to the world. Instead, creativity is a very social activity. Historical figures we may think of as one geniuses have all being a part of a scene of similar creators, each putting their own ideas into the melting pot of the scene while taking out others ideas and evolving them before returning them to the scene.

Brian Eno calls this a **scenius**.

Today, it's never been easier to join a scenius. The internet is really just a network of sceniuses.

# Be An Amateur
> That’s all any of us are: amateurs. We don’t live long enough to be anything else.
> —Charlie Chaplin

Amateur is used as a pejorative for someone who produces low quality work, and while the work of an amateur is generally nothing special, the work can be improved upon in increments. The gap between amateur and professional work is vast, but the gap between doing something and doing nothing is even greater, and the amateur knows that contributing something is better than contributing nothing.

Being an amateur creating producing some sort of work is a case of learning in the open, and the more work the amateur produces, the more they will learn about doing it better. Quite often, it is the amateur who is better placed to teach the craft since they have overcome many of the difficulties only recently, while the master did so long ago and has forgotten them.

The best way to start along the path from amateur to professional is to figure out what you want to learn and learn it in the open. Find a scenius and pay attention to what other members are sharing, and to what they're not sharing. Think about filling the voids with your own efforts. Share what you love.

# You Can't Find Your Voice If You Don't Use It
> Find your voice, shout it from the rooftops, and keep doing it until the people that are looking for you find you.
> — Dan Harmon

Don't try to find your voice before creating something. Instead create something and your voice will follow.

# Read Obituaries
> Remembering that I’ll be dead soon is the most important tool I’ve ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because almost everything—all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure—these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important. Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked.
> —Steve Jobs

Contemplating death can give you a greater appreciation for life. By remembering that you will eventually die, and that it could happen at any time, you can be inspired to live each day to its fullest. A near death experience can do this for people, but an easier (and safer) way of doing it is to read obituaries.